专家表示，完善“一带一路”国际经贸规则，将有助于高质量共建“一带一路”，使“一带一路”沿线国家受益，也有助于世界经济复苏。 ||| Work and explorations on how to improve the Belt and Road economic and trade rules will contribute to the high-quality joint construction of the Belt and Road Initiative, benefiting all BRI participants and the world economic recovery as well, according to experts.
专家在第二届惠园“一带一路”法治论坛上发表上述观点，该论坛于12月3日由对外经济贸易大学以线上会议方式举办，以“一带一路”国际经贸规则的建构和实践为主题。 ||| They made the remarks at the Second UIBE Forum on the BRI Rule of Law, which was held online by the University of International Business and Economics on Saturday to discuss the rulemaking and practice of BRI economic and trade rules.
对外经济贸易大学党委书记黄宝印认为，在高质量共建“一带一路”的关键时期，如何积极推动“一带一路”为人类福祉做出更大贡献，需要我们开展战略性、基础性、前瞻性的研究。 ||| Huang Baoyin, Party secretary of UIBE, said now is a crucial time to promote the joint construction of the BRI, and more strategic, basic, and forward-looking academic research will play a significant role in unleashing BRI potentials to benefit human community.
他表示，此类研究将有助于应对新使命新挑战，积极推进坚定奉行互利共赢的开放战略以及培育全球发展新动能的目标落实。 ||| Such research will help address new challenges and accomplish new missions, facilitate the promotion of win-win openness, and contribute to the cultivation of new development momentum for global economy, he said.
中国国际法学会会长黄进表示，“一带一路”国际经贸规则是一个庞杂的体系，其创新和完善的路径是多样的。 ||| Huang Jin, president of the Chinese Society of International Law, said the Belt and Road economic and trade rules are a complex system, involving multiple economies, topics, platforms, and mechanisms.
黄进称，“一带一路”国际经贸规则的创新和完善不仅需要遵循现有机制和规则，还需要引入新的机制和规则。为此，还需要加强“一带一路”沿线国家之间的双边合作机制，同时积极扩大更多参与者之间的多边机制，以及注重国际条约和全球实践的角色。 ||| The innovation and improvement of those rules requires not only adherence to some existing mechanisms and rules, but also introduction of new ones, he said, adding to innovate and improve the rules also requires strengthening bilateral mechanisms among participating economies while actively expanding multilateral mechanisms among more participants, as well as paying attention to both the roles of international treaties and global practices.
黄进称：“一方面，加快国内法律体系建设，特别是完善涉外经贸法律法规体系，是包括中国在内的所有‘一带一路’沿线国家面临的任务。” ||| "On the one hand, accelerating the construction of domestic legal system, especially improving the legal system of laws and regulations governing foreign economic and trade activity, is a task facing every BRI country, including China," he said.
“另一方面，‘一带一路’沿线国家必须维护以《联合国宪章》为基础的国际体系和国际法律规则，必须推动形成更加公平公正的国际经贸规则体系，改善国际法律环境。” ||| "On the other hand, participants of the BRI must uphold the international system and international legal rules based on the Charter of the United Nations, and must promote the formation of a more fair and just international economic and trade rule system and the enhancement of the international legal environment," he said.
