在海南海口举行的第88次中国改革国际论坛上，与会专家指出，中国以经济转型为主线的结构性改革将为中国的高质量发展奠定坚实基础，为全球经济增长注入强劲动力。 ||| China's structural transformation, which takes the economic transition as the mainstay, will lay a solid foundation for the country's high-quality development and inject strong impetus into global economic growth, according to experts attending the 88th International Forum on China Reform in Haikou, the capital of Hainan province.
中国（海南）改革发展研究院副院长匡贤明指出，高质量发展是全面建设社会主义现代化国家的首要任务。 ||| High-quality development is the top priority of building a modern socialist country in all respects, said Kuang Xianming, deputy head of the Hainan-based China Institute for Reform and Development.
中国正处于结构转型升级的关键时期，而结构转型升级对于推动高质量发展发挥着不可或缺的作用。 ||| China is at a critical juncture in its structural transformation and upgrading, a process that is playing an indispensable role in fostering high-quality development, he said.
匡贤明表示，为了推动结构转型，我国应该深化以市场为导向的生产要素改革，打破服务行业的垄断，建设全国统一大市场，加强知识产权保护，推进教育体制改革。 ||| The country should deepen the market-oriented reform of production factors, break monopolies in the service sector, establish a unified domestic market, improve intellectual property protection, and promote the reform of the education system in order to push forward structural transformation, Kuang said.
匡贤明指出，要加大力度推进高水平对外开放，重点开放先进制造业和服务业等领域的市场，加强科技创新领域的国际合作。 ||| More efforts should be made to advance high-level opening-up, he said, with an emphasis on further opening the market in fields such as advanced manufacturing and services, and bolstering international cooperation in scientific and technological innovation.
匡贤明表示，中国的结构转型将会持续释放我国经济的增长潜力，并成为全球经济发展的重要推动力。 ||| China's structural transformation is expected to continuously unleash the domestic economy's growth potential and serve as an important driving force for global economic development, he added.
世界银行数据显示，2013-2021年，我国对世界经济增长的平均贡献率达38.6%，在全球居首。 ||| China's contribution to global economic growth averaged 38.6 percent from 2013 to 2021, according to the World Bank data, making it the largest contributor.
中国（深圳）综合开发研究院院长樊纲指出，要充分发挥民营企业的创新活力，优化以企业为核心的科技创新体制。 ||| Fan Gang, president of the China Development Institute, a Shenzhen-based think tank, called for efforts to give full play to the innovative vitality of private businesses, and strengthen enterprises' core position in technological innovation.
近年来我国的创新能力显著提高。在世界知识产权组织发布的2022年《全球创新指数报告》中，中国的排名上升至第11位，较2012年提升了23位。 ||| China's innovation capabilities have grown significantly. The nation moved up to 11th place on the World Intellectual Property Organization's Global Innovation Index 2022, which was 23 places higher than its 2012 ranking.
中央党校（国家行政学院）马克思主义学院院长张占斌认为，要把实施扩大内需战略同深化供给侧结构性改革有机结合起来。 ||| "We need to combine expanding domestic demand with deepening supply-side structural reform," Zhang Zhanbin, head of the School of Marxism at the Party School of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, also known as the National Academy of Governance.
张占斌指出，我国应提高全要素生产率，优化科技创新机制，推动数字经济和实体经济的融合，在全球数字技术领域抢占竞争优势。 ||| Zhang said the country should increase its total factor productivity, improve its scientific and technological innovation mechanism, promote the integration of the digital economy with real economy and gain a competitive edge in digital technologies globally.
中科院国创会中国经济与金融研究中心主任、同济大学特聘教授刘兴华指出，要通过深化改革开放，构建高水平社会主义市场经济体制，构建完善高效的科技创新体系，以进一步激发经济活力。 ||| Liu Xinghua, director of the Chinese Center for Economic and Financial Studies of the China Institute for Innovation and Development Strategy, who is also a distinguished professor of Tongji University, stressed the need to build a high-standard socialist market economy and improve the efficient technological innovation system to further stimulate the vitality of the economy through deepening reform and opening-up.
