业内专家5月15日表示，国际货币基金组织决定提高人民币在全球重要储备资产中的权重，标志着人民币国际化的稳步推进，反映出人民币日益提升的全球影响力和中国金融开放取得的成就。 ||| The International Monetary Fund's decision to raise the renminbi's weight in a key global reserve asset marked the steady progress of the renminbi's internationalization, reflecting the currency's growing global heft and the achievement of China's financial opening-up, industry experts said on Sunday.
中国人民银行5月15日称，国际货币基金组织在最新一次对特别提款权（SDR）的定值审查中将人民币在SDR货币篮子中的权重上调1.36个百分点至12.28%。 ||| In the latest valuation review of the Special Drawing Right－an international reserve asset also known as the SDR, the IMF raised the weight of the renminbi in the basket of currencies that make up the SDR by 1.36 percentage points to 12.28 percent, the People's Bank of China, the nation's central bank, said on Sunday.
中国人民银行称，5月11日完成的特别提款权定值审查是2016年人民币成为SDR篮子货币以来的首次审查，原来的人民币权重为10.92%。 ||| The SDR valuation review, completed on Wednesday, marked the first review since the renminbi was included in the SDR basket in 2016, with a share of 10.92 percent, the central bank said.
新的SDR货币篮子在今年8月1日正式生效。人民币权重上调后，人民币在SDR货币篮子中的权重仍保持第三位，仅次于美元和欧元，高于日元和英镑。 ||| Effective on Aug 1, the weight increase will allow the renminbi to continue to account for the third-largest share in the basket, behind only the US dollar and the euro but ranking higher than the Japanese yen and the British pound.
中央财经大学国际经济与贸易学院院长张晓涛表示，人民币权重提升反映出随着中国在全球经济、贸易、金融格局中影响力扩大，人民币国际化正稳步推进。 ||| "The weight increase reflected that renminbi internationalization has made steady headway thanks to China's growing heft in the global economic, trade and financial landscape," said Zhang Xiaotao, dean of the School of International Trade and Economics at the Central University of Finance and Economics.
国际货币基金组织5月14日发布的声明称，人民币在SDR货币篮子中的新权重是基于2017年到2021年间中国贸易和金融市场的发展，国际货币基金组织的执行董事们对中国金融市场改革取得的进展表示认可。 ||| An IMF statement on Saturday said the updated SDR weights were based on developments in trade and financial markets from 2017 to 2021, with IMF executive directors acknowledging the progress made on financial market reforms in China.
国际货币基金组织的执行董事们呼吁中国采取更多措施进一步开放和深化在岸人民币市场。 ||| They called for additional efforts to further open and deepen the onshore renminbi market, the IMF said.
中国人民银行5月15日重申了中国开放金融市场的决心，并承诺进一步简化境外投资者进入中国市场投资的程序，丰富可投资的资产种类，完善数据披露，持续改善营商环境，延长银行间外汇市场的交易时间。 ||| Reiterating China's commitment to financial market opening-up, the PBOC vowed on Sunday to simplify the procedures for foreign investors to invest in the Chinese market, enlarge the universe of investable assets, improve data disclosure and the business environment, and extend trading hours of the interbank foreign exchange market.
张晓涛指出，更多的金融改革开放举措将促进资本自由流动，增强全球投资者对人民币资产的兴趣，从而有助于加快人民币国际化进程。 ||| Zhang said more financial reform and opening-up steps will help accelerate renminbi internationalization by facilitating free capital flows and cementing the preferences by global investors for renminbi-denominated assets.
张晓涛还表示，近期人民币对美元贬值是短期内受到冲击（比如新冠疫情反复）的结果，不会改变我国长期的发展潜力，也不会扰乱未来人民币国际化的进程。 ||| He added that the renminbi's recent depreciation against the dollar is due to short-term shocks, such as a resurgence in COVID-19 cases, and is unlikely to alter the country's long-term development potential or derail the future internationalization of the renminbi.
内蒙古银行研究发展部总经理杨海平指出，人民币权重增加有助于提高海外机构持有人民币和人民币资产的意愿、巩固市场对人民币的信心，缓冲强势美元对人民币的压力。 ||| Yang Haiping, general manager of the Bank of Inner Mongolia's research development department, said the weight rise will help boost the willingness of overseas organizations to hold the renminbi and renminbi-denominated assets, solidify market confidence in the currency, and cushion the pressure of a strong dollar on the renminbi.
除了提升人民币在SDR货币篮子中的权重，国际货币基金组织还将美元权重从2015年上一次审查时定的41.73%上调1.65个百分点至43.38%。 ||| Apart from raising the SDR share of the renminbi, the IMF increased the dollar's weighting to 43.38 percent, up by 1.65 percentage points from the last review in 2015.
