国家能源局副局长任京东10月17日在党的二十大记者招待会上表示，国家将继续提升国内能源供给和储备能力，力争到2025年，国内能源年综合生产能力达到46亿吨标准煤以上。 ||| China will continue stepping up domestic energy supplies and reserve capacity, with the ambition of having annual comprehensive energy production capacity exceed 4.6 billion metric tons of standard coal equivalent by 2025, an official said on Monday.
任京东称，作为能源生产和消费大国，确保能源安全始终是做好能源工作的首要任务。 ||| Ensuring energy security is always the primary task of energy work in China, a major global energy producer and consumer, Ren Jingdong, deputy director of the National Energy Administration, said on the sidelines of the ongoing 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China.
任京东表示，政府将坚持立足国内多元供应保安全，充分发挥煤炭的“压舱石”作用和煤电的基础性调节性作用,，大力提升油气勘探开发力度。 ||| The government will further enhance a diversified domestic supply base with coal serving as both "the cornerstone" and also playing a supportive role in maintaining energy security while speeding up development of domestic oil and gas resources, Ren said.
他指出，我国还要进一步建立健全煤炭、石油储备体系，特别是加快液化天然气接收站等设施建设，确保能源供应保持合理的弹性裕度。 ||| China will also further improve its coal and petroleum reserve system while stepping up the construction of liquefied natural gas terminals and other facilities to make sure energy supplies remain reasonably resilient, he said.
任京东称，我国还将全面构建风、光、水、核等清洁能源供应体系，统筹推进以沙漠、戈壁、荒漠地区为重点的大型风光电基地建设，确保到2025年非化石能源消费比重达到20%左右，到2030年达到25%左右。 ||| China is also working on building a clean energy supply system for clean energy, including hydropower, wind, solar and nuclear power. It is also further optimizing its energy mix by building massive wind and solar power facilities in the country's Gobi Desert and other arid regions to facilitate the country's ambition of non-fossil fuels accounting for 20 percent of total energy consumption by 2025 and 25 percent by 2030.
中石化经济技术研究院调研室主任罗佐县表示，除了快速发展清洁能源，中国还应该充分发挥煤炭对能源战略的支撑作用，清洁高效地利用煤炭。 ||| Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute, said that in addition to the rapid development of clean energy, China should make full use of coal as a supportive part of its energy strategy and give full play to the utilization of clean coal.
任京东表示，政府还将继续推进能源安全监测预警能力建设，进一步提升应急响应和抢险救灾能力。 ||| According to Ren, the government will also continue promoting construction of energy security monitoring and warning capacity to further enhance the country's capacity in emergency response and disaster relief contingencies.
任京东称，近年来我国积极推动绿色低碳转型，过去十年可再生能源发电总装机突破了11亿千瓦，水电、风电、太阳能发电、生物质发电装机的规模稳居世界第一。 ||| China's green transition has been gaining momentum in recent years, with total installed capacity for renewable energy generation rising to 1.1 billion kilowatts over the past 10 years, with generation capacities of hydropower, wind, solar and biomass ranking tops in the world, Ren added.
