在位于江西省上饶市的江西捷配工业互联网有限公司，一套连接100万名电子研发工程师、10万家上下游工厂、210多个国家的客户的数字化系统的信息在显示屏上实时呈现。 ||| A digital system connecting 1 million electronic research and development engineers, 100,000 upstream and downstream factories, and customers from more than 210 countries displays instant information at Jiangxi Jiepei Industrial Internet Co Ltd in Shangrao city, East China's Jiangxi province.
该公司总经理黄成介绍，通过这套自主研发的数字化系统，企业可对订单进度实时跟踪分析，确保订单按时完成。 ||| General Manager Huang Cheng said that through this self-developed digital system, the company can track and analyze detailed order progress in real time to ensure that each order is completed on schedule.
这是数字经济驱动中国经济高质量发展的浪潮的一个缩影。 ||| This is a microcosm of China's high-quality economic development driven by the digital economy.
8月20日至21日，2022中国数字经济产业大会在上饶市举行，300余名数字经济领域的专家学者、企业负责人会聚在此，共论数字经济发展成果、共商数字经济发展前景。 ||| More than 300 digital economy insiders, including professionals, scholars and business leaders, shared the latest achievements in China's digital economy and discussed its future development at the 2022 China Digital Economy Industry Conference held in Shangrao from Aug 20 to 21.
中国科学技术协会党组副书记徐延豪表示，发展数字经济对经济复苏和可持续发展至关重要。 ||| Xu Yanhao, deputy Party secretary of the China Association for Science and Technology, said that developing the digital economy has become key to achieving economic recovery and promoting sustainable development.
中国科学技术协会党组副书记徐延豪表示，发展数字经济对经济复苏和可持续发展至关重要。 ||| China has issued a series of policies and measures to promote the development of the digital economy, Xu added.
数据显示，从2012年至2021年，中国数字经济规模从11万亿元增长到45.5万亿元，数字经济占国内生产总值比重提升至39.8%。 ||| Data shows that the scale of China's digital economy soared from 11 trillion yuan in 2012 to 45.5 trillion yuan in 2021, accounting for 39.8 percent of the country's GDP in 2021.
“作为数字化发展最活跃的国家之一，中国加速推动传统产业数字化转型，在社会治理、公共服务、生产生活、民生保障等领域多应用场景加速创新，应用广度、深度不断拓展。”中国电子科技集团有限公司副总经理吕卫平说。 ||| "As one of the world's most active countries in digital development, China has accelerated the digital transformation of its traditional industries, and accelerated innovation in multiple application scenarios such as social governance, public services, production and livelihoods," said Lyu Weiping, deputy general manager of the China Electronics Technology Group Corporation.
新发布的全球数字经济白皮书显示，中国数字经济规模连续多年位居世界第二。 ||| A newly released white paper on the global digital economy notes that the scale of China's digital economy has ranked second globally for many years.
中国电子商会会长王宁指出，各方应积极开展核心技术协同攻关，充分发挥海量数据和丰富应用场景优势，促进数字技术和实体经济深度融合，推动各领域数字化转型，共同营造数字经济创新生态。 ||| Wang Ning, president of the China Electronics Chamber of Commerce, said that all parties should carry out collaborative research on core technologies, make full use of the advantages of massive data and rich application scenarios, promote the in-depth integration of digital technologies and the real economy, advance the digital transformation in all sectors, and jointly create an innovative ecosystem for the digital economy.
徐延豪说：“中国应积极参与数字领域国际合作，构建数字技术、产品、服务的标准、规则与治理方案，推动数字经济向更加开放、包容的方向发展。” ||| "China should actively participate in international cooperation in the digital field, establish standards, rules and governance schemes for digital technologies, products and services, and make the digital economy more open and inclusive," Xu said.
