12月19日，分析人士和企业高管表示，中国努力构建高水平开放制度体系，推进加入高标准经贸协定，将进一步提振2023年市场预期和全球企业信心。 ||| China's efforts to build an institutional system conducive to high-level opening-up and to seek to join high-standard economic and trade deals will further boost market expectations and the confidence of global companies in 2023, market observers and corporate executives said on Monday.
此前，中央经济工作会议12月16日闭幕。会上提出了一系列促进增长的政策措施。会议提出，要更大力度吸引和利用外资，要扩大市场准入，加大现代服务业领域开放力度，落实外资企业国民待遇。 ||| The remarks emerged in response to a series of pro-growth policy measures outlined by top policymakers during the tone-setting Central Economic Work Conference, which pledged to make greater efforts to attract and utilize foreign capital, widen market access, promote further opening-up of modern service industries and grant foreign-funded enterprises national treatment.
中央经济工作会议提出，要积极推动加入《全面与进步跨太平洋伙伴关系协定》和《数字经济伙伴关系协定》等高标准经贸协定。 ||| The meeting, which concluded on Friday in Beijing, said that China will actively seek to join high-standard economic and trade agreements such as the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement.
中国贸促会研究院副院长赵萍表示，为实现该目标，中国将进一步对标高标准经贸规则，打造市场化法治化营商环境，并在2023年对跨国公司扩大开放力度。 ||| To reach these goals, China will further adhere to the standard economic and trade rules, create a more market-oriented and law-based business environment, and open even wider to multinational corporations next year, said Zhao Ping, deputy head of the Academy of China Council for the Promotion of International Trade in Beijing.
中国社会科学院世界经济与政治研究所研究员高凌云表示，尽管存在外部不确定性，中国扩大内需和稳经济的政策将继续吸引外国直接投资，并确保明年全球供应链和产业链稳定运行。 ||| Despite external uncertainties, China's policies to boost domestic demand and take follow-up measures to stabilize the economy will continue to attract foreign direct investment, as well as ensure the operation of global supply and industrial chains next year, said Gao Lingyun, a researcher at the Institute of World Economics and Politics, which is a part of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing.
商务部数据显示， 2022年1-10月，全国实际使用外资金额1.09万亿元人民币，同比增长14.4%。 ||| The actual use of FDI in China expanded to 1.09 trillion yuan ($156.09 billion), a year-on-year increase of 14.4 percent, during the January-October period of 2022, data from the Ministry of Commerce showed.
中国共产党二十大报告强调，将合理缩减外资准入负面清单，依法保护外商投资权益，营造市场化、法治化、国际化一流营商环境。 ||| A key report delivered at the opening session of the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China stressed that China will make appropriate reductions to the negative list for foreign investment, protect the rights and interests of foreign investors in accordance with the law and foster a world-class business environment that is market-oriented, law-based and internationalized.
商务部国际贸易经济合作研究院研究员周密表示：“这些政策将鼓励更多跨国公司在中国投资。” ||| "These policies will motivate more global companies to invest in the country," said Zhou Mi, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation in Beijing.
总部位于美国的运动服饰公司斯凯奇中国、韩国和东南亚地区首席执行官陈伟利表示，中国最高领导层发出了强有力的信号，刺激内需将是2023年中国政府的一项主要任务，到2026年，斯凯奇的中国门店数量将从今年的3000家左右增加到6000家。 ||| Willie Tan, chief executive officer (China, South Korea and Southeast Asia) of Skechers, an athletic footwear and apparel company based in the United States, said as China's top leadership had sent a strong message that spurring domestic demand will be a major task of the government in 2023, Skechers will raise the number of its stores across China from around 3,000 this year to up to 6,000 in 2026.
陈伟利表示，在全球经济面临挑战之际，中国经济将凭借强大的韧性和潜力助力世界经济提振信心，中国将继续在全球产业链和供应链中发挥不可替代的作用。 ||| With its high resilience and potential, the Chinese economy will help boost the confidence of a world facing challenges and the country will continue to play an irreplaceable role in global industrial and supply chains, Tan said.
为抢占市场份额，总部位于瑞士苏黎世的消费品包装公司安姆科上周在广东惠州开设了一家新工厂，投资近1亿美元。 ||| Eager to seize more market share, Amcor Plc, a packaging solutions provider headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, opened a new plant in Huizhou, Guangdong province, last week with an investment of nearly $100 million.
安姆科称，该工厂是中国最大的软包装工厂。 ||| The factory is the largest flexible packaging plant in terms of production capacity in China, according to Amcor.
周密表示，增加跨国公司投资有助于推动生产要素的流动和优化，并促进区域和全球贸易。 ||| Zhou, from CAITEC, said that increasing investment by multinational companies could render better support for the flow and optimization of production factors, as well as bolster both regional and global trade.
德国水泵系统供应商威乐集团计划在江苏常州投资新建的一座工厂将于明年投入生产。 ||| Wilo Group, a German pump system provider, plans to put a new plant into operation in Changzhou, Jiangsu province, next year.
威乐集团中国及东南亚地区副总裁涂利民表示：“新工厂一旦投入运营，我们的产品将供应中国市场，并出口到其他新兴市场。” ||| "Once it is operational, our products will supply the Chinese market and be exported to other emerging markets," said Lyman Tu, Wilo's vice-president for China and Southeast Asia.
中国行政管理学会会长江小涓表示，稳定、透明、可预测的营商环境定能使中国市场发挥更积极作用，为世界创造新机会。 ||| A stable, transparent and predictable environment certainly can enable the Chinese market to play a better role, and create fresh opportunities for the world, said Jiang Xiaojuan, chairwoman of the Beijing-based Chinese Public Administration Society.
江小涓称，制度型开放表明中国坚定推动贸易自由化、便利化是长期之策。 ||| Conducting institutional opening-up shows that China's commitment to trade liberalization and facilitation is a long-term solution, Jiang said.
