专家和商界领袖称，中国的粮食安全不会因为俄乌冲突的影响和今年世界各地多种农产品价格飞涨而被扰乱，尽管外部环境日益严峻，但中国主要粮食作物的生产依然保持高度的自给自足。 ||| China's grain security will not be disrupted by the impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and soaring prices of many agricultural products across the world this year, as its self-sufficiency in staple grain production remains high amid growing external problems, said experts and business leaders.
专家和商界领袖指出，尽管全球粮食和农业面临着气候变化、疫情动荡和物流挑战给农作物产量和全球贸易往来带来的不确定性，但是2022年中国依然有能力保障粮食安全，因为中国有18亿亩耕地、农业新技术和切实可行的粮食进口政策的支持。 ||| Despite global food and agriculture sectors facing uncertainty over crop yields and global trade flows, in the context of climate challenges, COVID-19-related turmoil and logistics challenges, experts and business leaders said China, backed by its 1.8 billion mu (120 million hectares) of arable land, new farming technologies and practical grain import policies, is capable of ensuring its grain security in 2022.
中国农业科学院农业信息研究所研究员王永春表示，中国的三大主粮——小麦、水稻、玉米的生产都保持高度的自给自足。 ||| As the three staple grains, China's production of wheat, rice and corn remains highly self-sufficient, said Wang Yongchun, a researcher at the agricultural information institute of the Beijing-based Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS).
举例而言，中国在2021年进口971万吨小麦，这相比去年全国1.37亿吨的小麦产量只是一小部分。 ||| For example, the nation imported 9.71 million metric tons of wheat in 2021, which is a small proportion compared to the national wheat output of 137 million tons last year.
王永春指出：“因此国际市场上的价格波动，可能会进一步推高国际粮价，提高我国粮食进口成本。但对粮食安全，几无影响。” ||| "As a result, price fluctuations in the global market may further push up grain prices and drive China grain import costs, but it will have a limited impact on the nation's grain security," he noted.
王永春表示，中国水稻的播种面积常年保持在4.5亿亩左右，全年产量保持在2.1亿吨左右。她指出，进口水稻主要用于品种调剂。 ||| The sown area of rice in China has been maintained at about 450 million mu (30 million hectares) on an annual basis, and the annual output at about 210 million tons, said Wang, noting that imports are mainly used for variety adjustment.
国家统计局和海关总署的数据显示，2021年中国的水稻产量达到了21285万吨，进口稻谷496万吨，只占水稻供应总量的很小一部分。 ||| China's rice output reached 212.85 million tons in 2021, while it imported 4.96 million tons of rice, accounting for a negligible proportion of all rice supply, data from the National Bureau of Statistics and General Administration of Customs showed.
中国农业科学院农业经济与发展研究所研究员钟钰称，作为全球杂交水稻技术最先进且品种多样的国家之一，中国截至2021年底已在全国各地的盐碱地种植了60万亩水稻。 ||| As one of the world's leading countries in hybrid rice technology with a number of varieties, China had planted 600,000 mu (40,000 hectares) of rice in saline-alkali soil across the country by the end of 2021, said Zhong Yu, a researcher at CAAS's institute of agricultural economics and development.
钟钰补充道，根据政府规划，全国将扩大这种水稻的种植面积，不仅可以增加百姓的口粮，还可以改善选定区域的生态环境。 ||| Under the government plan, the planting area for this kind of rice will grow in the country, bringing more food to people and improving the ecological environment in selected areas, Zhong added.
国家统计局的数据显示，截至2021年底，作为全球最大的粮食生产国和第三大粮食出口国，中国的粮食产量连续七年稳定在6500亿公斤以上。 ||| By the end of 2021, China's grain production had been stabilized at over 650 billion kilograms for seven consecutive years as the largest grain producer and the third-largest grain exporter across the globe, the NBS data showed.
6月下旬，李克强总理强调要确保粮食安全和能源供应，为稳经济大盘稳物价提供坚实支撑。 ||| Premier Li Keqiang urged efforts to ensure grain security and energy supply to maintain the stability of the economy and prices in late June.
李克强指出，保持经济运行在合理区间，两个重要指标是稳就业稳物价，粮食和能源是稳物价的基本支撑。 ||| Li said grain production and energy supply are two pillars for stable commodity prices, and jobs and commodity prices are two key indicators of stable economic performance.
钟钰称，在打好国内粮食生产基础的同时，中国也不能放弃国际市场。我国大豆、玉米的供需缺口，仍需要国际市场的补充。 ||| While laying a solid foundation for domestic grain production, China cannot ignore the international market.
中国需要更加积极地开拓更多元的国际市场。 ||| The supply and demand gap between soybeans and corn in the country still needs to be supplemented by imports. It is vital for China to further secure more import sources in other countries, said Zhong.
国家统计局的数据显示，2021年，除了进口玉米2835万吨外，我国玉米播种面积接近6.5亿亩，全年玉米产量达到2.73亿吨，大部分被用作饲料和工业原料。 ||| Apart from importing 28.35 million tons of corn last year, China's corn planting area amounted to around 650 million mu and the annual corn output reached 273 million tons in 2021, with a large volume consumed by feed and industrial sectors, said the NBS.
法国农产品贸易与加工企业路易达孚北亚区首席执行官陈嘉渊称，为了确保消费者可以获得种类广泛、价格合理的食物，中国需要让进口结构更多样化。 ||| "A more diverse import structure is needed to ensure consumers have access to a wide variety of affordable foods.
比如，为了减轻大豆等部分农作物价格上涨的影响，可以考虑进口其他油料作物作为替代品。 ||| For example, to mitigate impacts of rising prices for some crops, such as soybeans, other oil crops could be considered as alternatives," said Jerrity Chen, head of the North Asia region of Louis Dreyfus Co, the French agricultural goods trader and processor.
