官员和专家指出，中国加快建设全国统一大市场，将能为包括外资企业在内的各类市场主体提供更广阔的发展空间，标志着我国深化市场化改革和推动高质量发展迈出关键的一步。 ||| China's accelerated push for building a national unified market will create broader development space for all players, including foreign businesses, signaling a key step to deepen market-oriented reforms and foster high-quality development, officials and experts said.
国家发展和改革委员会5月18日在一份声明中称，中国将建设充分开放的全国统一大市场，为中外企业提供更优质发展环境和更大发展舞台。 ||| The National Development and Reform Commission, China's top economic regulator, said in a statement on Wednesday that China aims to build a unified and fully open market, offering a better environment and larger development space for domestic and foreign businesses.
4月10日，《中共中央 国务院关于加快建设全国统一大市场的意见》正式发布，目标是破除地方保护和市场分割，扫清阻碍经济发展的主要“障碍”。 ||| The remarks came after the Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State Council jointly released a guideline on April 10 on accelerating the establishment of a national unified market, aimed at ending local protectionism and unifying the fragmented market to remove key hurdles to economic growth.
发展改革委表示，建设规范的全国统一大市场，能充分发挥市场在资源配置中的决定性作用，帮助转变政府职能。 ||| The NDRC said establishing a unified and well-regulated market will give full play to its decisive role in allocating resources and help transform the government's functions.
发展改革委指出，建设全国统一大市场是畅通国内大循环、促进国内国际双循环的重要基础，将为构建新发展格局提供坚强支撑。 ||| According to the NDRC, building a national unified market will provide strong support for China to create a new economic development pattern of "dual-circulation" that takes the domestic market as the mainstay while domestic and foreign markets complement each other.
为了建设全国统一大市场，市场监管总局表示将重点从市场准入、公平竞争、社会信用、产权保护四个方面强化市场基础制度规则统一。 ||| To build such an open national market, the State Administration for Market Regulation said that it will mainly focus on fields related to market access, fair competition, supervision on credit and intellectual property protection to accelerate the establishment of rules in a unified market system.
中国人民大学国家发展与战略研究院的刘瑞明教授表示，全国统一大市场不意味着要建设一个完全自我循环的封闭性市场，而是强调中国经济要融入到全球大循环，进一步对外开放。 ||| Liu Ruiming, a professor at Renmin University of China's National Academy of Development and Strategy, said that a national unified market does not mean seclusion under the internal circulation model, but instead emphasizes integrating the Chinese economy internationally and further opening up the economy.
中国宏观经济研究院对外经济研究所所长刘泉红指出，建设全国统一大市场有利于更好地利用和发挥好我们国家强大国内市场的突出优势，加快构建高标准市场体系、扩大高水平对外开放。 ||| Liu Quanhong, director of the International Economics Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Macroeconomic Research, said that building a national unified market will give full play to the advantages of China's ultra-large domestic market, accelerate the building of a high-standard system and expand high-level opening-up.
