经济学家和专家表示，在政府采取有效措施控制疫情和稳定市场预期的前提下，中国今年可能实现5.5%左右的年度增长目标。 ||| China will likely meet its annual growth target of around 5.5 percent this year with the help of the government's effective measures to control COVID-19 outbreaks and stabilize market expectations, economists and experts said.
尽管国内疫情反复和复杂严峻的外部环境使中国面临的压力越来越大，但他们认为，中国有大量的政策工具来稳定整体经济，而疫情的影响可能是暂时的。 ||| Despite facing mounting pressure from a resurgence in domestic COVID-19 cases and a complicated and grim external environment, they believe the country has plenty of policy tools to stabilize the overall economy, while the impact of outbreaks is likely to be temporary.
中国一季度国内生产总值（GDP）同比增长4.8%，增速高于预期，专家援引该数据称，一季度经济增长与年度增长目标之间仍存在差距，呼吁采取更多措施加快宏观经济政策支持，尤其是针对受重创的企业和行业的支持。 ||| Citing China's faster-than-expected 4.8 percent year-on-year growth in the first quarter, they said there still exists a gap between first-quarter growth and the country's annual growth target, calling for more steps to accelerate macroeconomic policy support, especially for hard-hit enterprises and sectors.
中国国际经济交流中心副理事长王一鸣表示，与全球主要经济体相比，中国第一季度GDP增长更高，通胀更低，尽管面临下行压力，但显示出强劲的经济韧性。 ||| Compared with major economies, China reported higher GDP growth with lower inflation in the first quarter, demonstrating robust economic resilience despite downward pressures, said Wang Yiming, vice-chairman of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges.
王一鸣在5月7日于北京举行的中国经济形势专题研讨会上表示，尽管中国第一季度实现了可持续的工业增长，投资需求上升，创新势头强劲，但由于国内新冠疫情和俄乌冲突，自3月份以来，主要经济指标的增长已经放缓。 ||| Wang said at a Chinese economic situation seminar on Saturday in Beijing that while China witnessed sustainable industrial growth, rising investment demand and strong innovation momentum in the first quarter, the growth of major economic indicators have slowed since March because of the COVID-19 cases and the Russia-Ukraine conflict.
王一鸣表示，由于小微企业等许多市场主体面临着困难，压力越来越大，应作出更多努力，积极回应这些主体的关切，稳定市场预期，进行更有力的宏观经济政策调整，以稳定经济。 ||| With many market entities like micro and small businesses facing difficulties and mounting pressures, he said, more efforts should be made to actively respond to the concerns of those entities to stabilize market expectations and provide stronger macroeconomic policy adjustments to stabilize the economy.
北京大学光华管理学院院长刘俏也认同该观点。考虑到中国经济的强劲韧性和充足的政策工具，他认为中国有信心在2022年实现5.5%左右的年度增长目标。 ||| Wang's views were echoed by Liu Qiao, dean of the Guanghua School of Management at Peking University. Considering the strong resilience of the economy and China's ample tools, Liu believes China has the confidence to meet its annual growth target of around 5.5 percent in 2022.
对外经济贸易大学国际经济研究院院长桑百川表示，中国经济今年仍将处于复苏中，同时面临新冠疫情、地缘政治紧张局势以及美欧货币政策调整的压力。 ||| Sang Baichuan, dean of the Institute of International Economy at the University of International Business and Economics, said China's economy will remain in the process of recovery this year while facing pressures from the COVID-19 pandemic, geopolitical tensions and monetary policy adjustments in the United States and Europe.
中国国际经济交流中心常务副理事长张晓强称：“经济形势具有挑战性。” ||| "The economic situation is challenging," said Zhang Xiaoqiang, executive vice-chairman of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges.
张晓强表示，确保经济稳定，积极回应外商关切，对稳定外国投资和国际贸易至关重要。 ||| He said it is of great importance to ensure economic stability and actively respond to the concerns of foreign businesses to stabilize foreign investment and international trade.
中国欧盟商会和罗兰贝格咨询公司发布的一项最新调查显示，中国本土疫情和俄乌冲突正对欧洲企业经营构成严峻挑战。 ||| A new survey released by the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China and Roland Berger consultancy showed China's domestic COVID-19 cases and the Russia-Ukraine crisis are creating severe challenges to European business operations.
商务部副部长盛秋平表示，面对外贸领域面临的挑战，商务部将努力维护物流和生产活动的畅通，加强金融支持，鼓励跨境商务等新业态。 ||| Given challenges in the foreign trade sector, the Ministry of Commerce will work to safeguard smooth logistics and production activities, improve financial support and encourage new business forms, such as cross-border commerce, said Sheng Qiuping, vice-minister of commerce.
他表示，中国拥有14亿多的人口规模，包括4亿的中等收入群体，中国的消费市场将进一步扩大。 ||| China's consumption market will further expand, as the country has 1.4 billion people, including 400 million middle-income earners, he said.
盛秋平说，中国经济发展长期向好的基本面没有变，开放的中国大市场必将为各国企业发展提供更多机遇。 ||| Sheng said the Chinese market will remain open and unleash more opportunities for global enterprises, as the fundamentals of the Chinese economy will continue to improve.
