一名官员称，中国持续的减税降费措施和近期面向企业的增值税留抵退税政策能帮助市场主体抵御经济逆风，对于保证今年的经济增长至关重要。 ||| China's continued tax and fee cuts and the recent move of refunding value-added tax credits to businesses are helping market players withstand economic headwinds and are critical in supporting growth this year, an official said.
财政部副部长许宏才5月3日接受《经济日报》的采访时表示，退税减税是稳定宏观经济大盘的关键性举措。 ||| Xu Hongcai, vice-minister of finance, said in a published interview in Economic Daily on Tuesday that this year, tax cuts and refunds work as critical means of keeping overall economic performance stable.
许宏才指出，今年预计全年退税减税约2.5万亿元，并表示，各项退税减税降费政策正在加快实施。 ||| Xu said the amount of tax cuts and refunds is expected to reach 2.5 trillion yuan ($378 billion) this year, adding that all competent measures will be put in place in an expedited manner.
从4月1日开始办理留抵退税以来，截至4月28日已办理退税6256亿元，直接为企业增加现金流，帮助企业减负纾困。 ||| During the time between April 1, when the country's tax credit refund scheme was first enacted, and April 28, some 625.6 billion yuan has been refunded to businesses in an effort to inject direct liquidity into businesses and ease their financial burdens.
许宏才称：“5月份，我们还将提前退还小型和中型企业存量留抵税额，此后还将加快大型企业退税进度，确保上半年大头落地。” ||| "Outstanding VAT credits for small and medium-sized businesses will be refunded in advance in May. In addition, we will step up the refund process for large-scale enterprises to ensure that most tax credit refunds will be realized in the first half of the year," he said.
国家税务总局的数据显示，4月份多数办理增值税留抵退税的都是小微企业。 ||| Figures from the State Taxation Administration show that in April, the majority of VAT tax credit refund recipients were small and micro businesses.
今年的政府工作报告指出，预计全年留抵退税约1.5万亿元，退税资金全部直达企业。 ||| This year's Government Work Report said that VAT credit refunds will account for 1.5 trillion yuan this year and will all go straight to enterprises.
中国财政科学研究院副研究员苏京春指出，不能低估今年退税政策对企业尤其是中小企业的作用。 ||| Su Jingchun, an associate professor with the Chinese Academy of Fiscal Sciences, pointed out that this year, the effectiveness of tax refunds for businesses, particularly for smaller ones, should not be underestimated.
苏京春表示，当前经济面临的最大挑战就是内外部存在的极大的不确定性，这增加了宏观政策的操作难度，也打击了企业的信心。但是三月初公布的增值税留抵退税政策及时间表在经济遇到阻力的情况下迄今为止一直在快速推进。这不仅缓解了中小企业的资金压力，更重要的是，提振了企业信心，有助于下半年经济向好。 ||| "The greatest challenge facing the economy now is the magnitude of uncertainty both externally and internally, which adds to the difficulty of macro policy maneuvers and hampers business confidence. Yet the move and timetable of VAT tax refunds have been announced early in March, and have been swiftly implemented so far, despite growth headwinds. This not only alleviates liquidity crunches for smaller businesses, but more importantly, boosts their confidence and builds up better prospects for the latter half of the year," Su said.
国家税务总局的调查结果显示，留抵退税返还的资金主要被用于产品拓展、购买原材料、工资发放和技术研发。 ||| Survey results made by the State Taxation Administration show that funds under the VAT tax credit refund scheme are mainly used for product expansion, purchasing raw materials, payrolls and technological research.
河南一家药品生产公司的法人代表郝爱秀（音译）近日表示，该公司从当地税务部门收到了约124万元退税。 ||| Hao Aixiu, representative of a pharmaceutical production company in Henan province, said recently that the firm received some 1.24 million yuan in tax refunds from the local taxation department.
该公司在提出退税申请几小时后就收到了退回的税款。 ||| The company received the refunds only a couple of hours after its refund applications were filed.
她说：“过去两年来我们面临的挑战越来越多，原材料价格不断上涨，生产和物流频频受到疫情的干扰。来自退税的流动资金对于支撑运营和巩固市场分销渠道至关重要。” ||| "We've been facing increasing challenges in the past two years, as prices of raw materials keep ticking up, while production and logistics were frequently distorted by the pandemic situation," she said. "Liquidity from the tax refund scheme is critical for underpinning operations and consolidating our market distribution channels."
