专家表示，在最近的一次会议上，中国承诺加快形成资源定价机制，以呼吁可持续利用资源，同时尽量减少对环境的影响，提高资源利用效率正在成为一个快速增长的市场，投资机会越来越多。 ||| Energy efficiency is emerging as a burgeoning market with increasing investment opportunities as China pledged to accelerate the formation of a resource pricing mechanism during a recent meeting amid attempts to call for sustainably using resources while minimizing environmental impact, experts said.
厦门大学中国能源政策研究院院长林伯强表示：“提高稀有资源的价格将催生循环经济等领域的大量商业机会，而提高碳排放成本可能会推动更多投资者转向新能源部门，并促进传统能源部门的绿色转型，同时吸引更多企业进入相关市场。” ||| "Raising prices of rare resources will spur numerous business opportunities in fields like circular economy, while making carbon emissions more costly is likely to propel more investors to turn to the new energy sector and green transition of the traditional energy sector while attracting more businesses to relevant markets," said Lin Boqiang, head of the China Institute for Studies in Energy Policy at Xiamen University.
在9月6日举行的中央全面深化改革委员会第二十七次会议上，中国承诺将加快建立体现资源稀缺程度、生态损害成本、环境污染代价的资源价格形成机制。 ||| The remarks were made after China vowed to accelerate the establishment of a resource pricing mechanism that reflects the degree of resource scarcity－as well as the costs of both ecological damage and environmental pollution－at the 27th meeting of the Central Commission for Comprehensively Deepening Reform on Tuesday.
中国石油化工集团公司经济技术研究院情报研究部主任罗作先（音）说：“地缘政治紧张进一步加剧了能源危机，并提醒我们节约能源和环境保护的重要性。” ||| "Geopolitical tensions have further accelerated the energy crisis, and remind us of the importance of energy conservation and environmental protection," said Luo Zuoxian, head of intelligence and research at the Sinopec Economics and Development Research Institute.
他说，降低能源消耗最有效的方法之一是通过价格监管，这种价格监管可以反映资源的稀缺程度，实现资源的有效利用。 ||| One of the most effective ways to reduce energy consumption is through price regulations that reflect the degree of scarcity and achieve the purpose of practicing efficient use of resources, Luo said.
中国计划在“十四五”期间（2021-2025年），单位国内生产总值能耗比2020年下降13.5%、单位国内生产总值二氧化碳排放下降18%。 ||| China plans to reduce energy consumption per unit of GDP by 13.5 percent and carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by 18 percent during the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-25).
彭博新能源财经调查公司的电力市场分析师魏汉阳说：“中国的目标是合理、系统地为自然资源定价，因为在地缘政治紧张局势中，大宗商品价格的波动性越来越大，而且中国已经开始重视其资源的长期可持续性，否则很容易在资源的长期价值被利用之前过早地耗尽它们。” ||| "China aims to price natural resources properly and systematically as there is growing volatility of commodity prices amid geopolitical tensions, and China has come to value the long-term sustainability of its resources. Otherwise, it is easy for the country to use them up too soon before their long-term value is utilized," said Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at research firm BloombergNEF.
前瞻产业研究院的一份报告显示，中国的节能环保市场将继续增长，这得益于中国在2030年前实现碳达峰，2060年前实现碳中和的目标，以及一系列的支持性政策。 ||| According to a report by the Qianzhan Industrial Research Institute, China's market for energy saving and environmental protection will continue to rise, buoyed by the country's goals to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and reach carbon neutrality by 2060, as well as a series of supportive policies.
该机构预计，到2027年，该行业的产值将超过19万亿元人民币。 ||| It expects the industry's output to surpass 19 trillion yuan by 2027.
该机构补充说，近年来，由于云计算、物联网和大数据等前沿技术的使用，节能环保行业加速发展。 ||| In recent years, the industry has seen accelerated development, buoyed by the use of cutting-edge technologies in the field, such as cloud computing, the internet of things and big data, the institute added.
近年来，旨在实现既定目标的新产品不断涌现，如智能电网、智能水电站和其他有助于降低生产和运营过程中能源消耗的产品。 ||| New products that aim to reach the stated goals have continuously come out in recent years such as smart grids, smart hydropower stations and other products that help reduce energy consumption in the process of production and operations.
经升级改造的工业余热锅炉可以从生产过程中的气体、液体和固体材料中回收工业余热，并利用收集的热量发电。 ||| There are also upgraded boilers that can recycle industrial waste heat from gases, liquid and solid materials in production processes, and use collected heat to generate power.
华泰证券的一份报告称，采用工业余热锅炉可以帮助企业产生利润，企业可在三到五年内收回成本。 ||| A report by Huatai Securities said the adoption of industrial waste heat boilers can help companies generate profit, and they can recover the costs in three to five years.
前瞻产业研究院表示，未来中国节能环保产业的发展将通过数字化迈入新阶段。 ||| Going forward, China's development of the energy saving and environmental protection industry will enter a new phase through digitalization, Qianzhan said.
