12月19日，清华大学产业发展与环境治理研究中心与自然集团共同发布《国际科技创新中心指数2022》。北京超越伦敦，首次位列全球第三名。 ||| Beijing surpassed London for the first time to rank third globally in innovation, according to the Global Innovation Hubs Index 2022 released on Dec 19.
《国际科技创新中心指数2022》通过科研创新、创新经济、创新生态3个维度的多项指标，对全球100个城市（都市圈）的创新能力进行评价。 ||| Developed by the Center for Industrial Development and Environmental Governance at Tsinghua University and Nature Research, the GIHI2022 continues in evaluating 100 GIHs by three indicators including research innovation, innovation economy and innovation ecosystem.
自然集团表示，相较2021年指数，本年度的评估范围由50个城市扩展到100个城市（都市圈），并新增了人口不足百万的微型科创中心城市。 ||| The number of evaluated hubs in the 2022 edition has increased from 50 to 100, which also include mini-hubs with populations of less than one million, according to Nature Research.
本次位列前十位的城市（都市圈）有：旧金山-圣何塞、纽约、北京、伦敦、波士顿、粤港澳大湾区、东京、日内瓦、巴黎、和上海。 ||| The top 10 cities and metropolitan areas (MA) this year are San Francisco-San Jose, New York MA, Beijing, London MA, Boston MA, Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, Tokyo MA, Geneva, Paris MA and Shanghai.
自然集团表示，北京、杭州、粤港澳大湾区等城市和都市圈在可再生能源技术网络中的位置举足轻重，引领全球转向绿色发展。 ||| "Cities and metropolitan areas including Beijing, Hangzhou, Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area are important nodes in the network of renewable energy technology, leading the world in a global shift towards green development," said Nature Research.
报告称，除旧金山、纽约和东京三大湾区外，粤港澳大湾区首次超过东京湾区，位列榜单第六位，并已成为亚洲新的创新中心。 ||| In addition to the three Bay Areas of San Francisco, New York and Tokyo, Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, which has overtaken Tokyo Bay Area for the first time, ranks sixth on the list and has become a new innovation hub in Asia, the report said.
北京近年来在创新生态系统方面取得了很大进展。 ||| Beijing has progressed rapidly in innovation ecosystem in recent years.
《国际科技创新中心指数》首席科学家、清华大学产业发展与环境治理研究中心主任陈玲表示，北京在世界一流科研机构200强、超级计算机、创新领先企业和独角兽企业、创投资金等方面，都进入了全球前三的位置。 ||| The city ranks top three globally in all these fields, such as the world's top 200 scientific research institutions, supercomputers, leading innovation enterprises and unicorns, and venture capital, said Chen Ling, GIHI's chief scientist and director of CIDEG at Tsinghua University.
陈玲表示，当前，我们国家已经进入创新驱动发展时期，数字化又进一步加速了创新资源流动。建设国际科技创新中心，是国家综合实力的集中的体现，也是未来进一步发展的动力。 ||| China has entered a period of innovation-driven development, with digitalization further accelerating the flow of innovation resources. Building international science and technology innovation centers is not only the embodiment of a country's comprehensive strength but also the driving force for further development in the future, Chen said.
